# Bootstrap

This layer of the toolkit contains all the terraform needed to:
 
 1. Setup a GCP project with secret manager, workfload federated identity for github OIDC and a bucket for terraform state storage.
 2. Setup an organization under a github enterprise account for all the github foundation related repositories.
 3. Perform initial creation of all other organizations under a github enterprise account.

 This layer is meant to be run locally by a user that can authenticate with the `admin:enterprise` scope.

## Prerequisites for Running the Bootstrap Layer

Before running the bootstrap layer, please ensure you have the following prerequisites met:

**1. GitHub CLI:**

* Install the GitHub CLI according to your operating system's instructions ([https://cli.github.com/](https://cli.github.com/)).
* Authenticate to GitHub by running the following command: `gh auth login --scopes 'admin:enterprise','gist','admin:org','repo','workflow'`.
  * Choose "GitHub.com" when prompted.
  * Choose your preferred protocol for Git operations.
  * Choose a method to authenticate with GitHub, when prompted.

**2. Google Cloud Platform (GCP) CLI:**

* Install the GCP CLI according to your operating system's instructions ([https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install)).
* Authenticate to your GCP instance with the following command `gcloud auth application-default login`.

**3. GCP Service Account and Permissions:**

* Your GCP instance needs a service account with the following roles:
    * `roles/iam.workloadIdentityPoolAdmin`
    * `roles/iam.serviceAccountAdmin`
    * `roles/resourcemanager.projectMover`
    * `roles/resourcemanager.projectDeleter`
    * `roles/resourcemanager.folderEditor`
    * `roles/storage.admin`
    * `roles/storage.objectAdmin`
* Additionally, you either need permissions to impersonate the service account or it to be your service account.

**Note:** These prerequisites grant extensive permissions within your GCP project and organization. Please ensure you understand the implications of assigning these roles and permissions before proceeding.

**Resources:**

* GitHub CLI: [https://cli.github.com/](https://cli.github.com/)
* GCP CLI: [https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install)
* GCP IAM Roles: [https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/understanding-roles](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/understanding-roles)

## Running the Bootstrap Layer

This section outlines the steps to run the bootstrap layer. Remember to ensure you have met the prerequisites detailed in the previous section before proceeding.

### Setting initial values for your environment

Before running the bootstrap layer, you need to set the initial values for your environment. You can do this by copying the `terraform.tfvars.example` file to `terraform.tfvars` and filling in the values.

```bash
$ cp terraform.tfvars.example terraform.tfvars
$ nano terraform.tfvars
```
 You will see a section like this:

```hcl
# A map of organizations to create under the enterprise account. The key will be your organizations id
    # and must comply with github naming rules
    # Example:
    # "Uncaffeinated-Solutions" = {
    #   display_name  = "Uncaffeinated Solutions"
    #   description   = "Needs Caffeine
    #   billing_email = "billing@uncaffeinated.com
    #   admin_logins  = ["fred@uncaffeinated.com" ]  
    # }
```

Uncomment the example and fill in the values for:
- the key (becomes the organization id)
- `display_name`
- `description`
- `billing_email`
- `admin_logins`

Add as many organizations as you need.



### Generating a Plan (Without Execution)

To generate a plan that outlines the changes the bootstrap layer will make to your infrastructure, without actually executing them, run the following command:

```
terraform plan
```

This command will analyze your Terraform configuration and display a detailed plan summarizing the planned changes:

* Resources to be created, updated, or destroyed.
* Any potential costs associated with the changes.
* Any potential warnings or errors.

Carefully review the plan to ensure it aligns with your expectations before proceeding to the next step.

### Generating and Executing a Plan

To generate a plan and immediately execute the changes in your infrastructure, run the following command:

```
terraform apply
```

**Warning:** This command will make irreversible changes to your infrastructure. Before running it, ensure you have thoroughly reviewed the plan generated by `terraform plan` and understand the potential impact of the changes.

By default, `terraform apply` will prompt you for confirmation before executing the plan. You can bypass this prompt and proceed directly with execution by using the `-auto-approve` flag, but **strongly advise against** doing so in production environments due to the risk of unintended consequences.

**Additional Options:**

* For more granular control over the plan generation and execution process, you can explore additional options supported by the `terraform plan` and `terraform apply` commands. Refer to the official Terraform documentation for a comprehensive list of options: [https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform)

**Important Note:** Remember to exercise caution when working with tools that modify your infrastructure. Always have a backup plan and a clear understanding of the potential consequences before executing any changes.
